# ðŸ“½ Use case demo

Here you'll find several use cases built using iExec's **tools**. These examples
demonstrate ways to use iExec's features across multiple industries and
applications to ensure data **privacy** and **ownership** while sharing and
**monetizing computing resources**.

These examples combine our tools in different ways. For example, the
[privacy enhancing marketing](./use-case-demo/privacy-enhancing-marketing.md)
use case uses the Web3Mail tool to send directed marketing communications to a
user's email address. It employs the DataProtector tool to hide the user's email
address and personal information. Aspects of the DataProtector tool also allow
users to set a price for accessing their protected data, such as their email
address, allowing the user to monetize attempts to directly market to them.

Combining the tools in such a novel way inverts the typical marketing paradigm.
Users have an inbuilt incentive to maintain an accurate profile to receive
highly relevant marketing materials, and an incentive to access them as they're
receiving a monetary incentive. Marketers have an inbuilt incentive to better
match their offerings to a target audience. They may pay more for each message
but can gain additional confidence that fewer messages are targeting
uninterested parties.

### Integration opportunities

The iExec APIs support a wide range of modern programming paradigms. The most
common way to interact with our services is through standard TypeScript
integrations. Our libraries rely on Web3-standard techniques such as JSON
formats for request and response objects. Doing so ensures the iExec tools will
integrate seamlessly with your custom applications. Your end users don't need to
know they're interacting with distributed applications or the blockchain.
They'll interact with your platform as always and you can provide them a greater
assurance of privacy and control over their information.

The [content creator](./use-case-demo/content-creator.md) use case, powered by
our DataProtector API, gives a clean example of how our tools can integrate with
your application. This use case showcases how a user can create and share
content and use smart contracts to earn compensation when their content is
accessed. This tool is a great candidate for applications such as a website to
share instructional videos. You can recruit a group of creators who are
automatically compensated when certain conditions are met, such as view length
and audience engagement. Using our DataProtector API within your web application
shields users from the complexity of blockchain while still delivering to them
the benefits of distributed ledger and smart contract technologies.
