# ðŸ’¡ What we do

iExec's distinct approach helps protect your digital estate\* while
simultaneously growing its value. Our technology couples decentralized computing
with a built-in blockchain protocol and support for cutting-edge cryptographic
protocols. This makes iExec an ideal choice for individuals and organizations
seeking to optimize their computing resources while prioritizing security and
privacy.

## Reasons to choose iExec

iExec is the perfect platform for developers interested in **privacy**,
**ownership**, and **monetization**.

### Privacy

iExec gives developers powerful tools to build and deploy their decentralized
applications. Confidential data is encrypted and stored on a decentralized
network, ensuring protection from unauthorized access. iExec also employs
advanced **confidential computing** techniques to ensure that data remains
secure and private even when processed on untrusted remote servers.

This unique approach guarantees that data is protected from unauthorized access
and tampering, even if the underlying hardware or operating system is
compromised. This privacy-by-design principle guarantees that no one can access
or copy confidential data unless explicitly granted access by the owner. To
support this, iExec offers a powerful API to grant users fine-grained control
over authorizations for access to their data.

### Ownership

iExec provides a reliable mechanism for developers to retain ownership of their
applications and data. This is a key feature of iExec's decentralized nature
leveraging **Ethereum** blockchain technology. The platform employs blockchain
smart contracts to store access control rules, providing a tamper-proof
implementation.

These mechanisms ensure data owners can grant or revoke access to their data on
demand. Changes to authorization take effect immediately as part of execution of
the smart contracts. The distributed ledger ensures an immutable record of
ownership and transactions on data.

### Monetization

iExec gives developers powerful options for **monetization of their applications
and data**. An easy to understand pay-per-task model helps developers rent their
applications and empowers users to monetize usage of their own data. With iExec,
developers also earn rewards for sharing their computing resources with the
network.

## Adopting iExec

Through our integrated approach to distributed computing, iExec provides the
foundational technology for developers to **build entirely new types of Web3
applications**. iExec technologies allow users to store, process, and share
their data while maintaining control over its usage and privacy. Review our use
cases for further examples of how iExec can help you connect with your users and
support their needs for confidentiality and security.

**Use Cases**

- [Privacy Enhanced Marketing](./use-case-demo/privacy-enhancing-marketing.md)
- [Content Creator](./use-case-demo/content-creator.md)

_\*digital estate represents every digital asset that you own and can create
value from. This can be from an email address to an entire application._
